The People’s Republic of China is a socialist state governed by a
people’s democratic dictatorship that is led by the working class and
based on an alliance of workers and peasants.
The socialist system is the fundamental system of the People’s
Republic of China. Leadership by the Communist Party of China is the
defining feature of socialism with Chinese characteristics. It is prohibited
for any organization or individual to damage the socialist system. 
All power in the People’s Republic of China belongs to the people.
The organs through which the people exercise state power are the
National People’s Congress and the local people’s congresses at all levels.
The people shall, in accordance with the provisions of law, manage
state affairs, economic and cultural undertakings, and social affairs
through various channels and in various ways. 
The state institutions of the People’s Republic of China shall practice
the principle of democratic centralism.
The National People’s Congress and the local people’s congresses
at all levels shall be created through democratic election and shall be
responsible to the people and subject to their oversight.
All administrative, supervisory, adjudicatory and procuratorial
organs of the state shall be created by the people’s congresses and shall
be responsible to them and subject to their oversight.
The division of functions and powers between the central and local
state institutions shall honor the principle of giving full play to the 
initiative and motivation of local authorities under the unified leadership
of the central authorities. 
All ethnic groups of the People’s Republic of China are equal. The
state shall protect the lawful rights and interests of all ethnic minorities
and uphold and promote relations of equality, unity, mutual assistance
and harmony among all ethnic groups. Discrimination against and
oppression of any ethnic group are prohibited; any act that undermines
the unity of ethnic groups or creates divisions among them is prohibited.
The state shall, in light of the characteristics and needs of all ethnic
minorities, assist all ethnic minority areas in accelerating their economic
and cultural development.
All areas inhabited by ethnic minorities shall practice regional
autonomy, establish autonomous organs, and exercise the power to selfgovern. All ethnic autonomous areas are inseparable parts of the People’s
Republic of China.
All ethnic groups shall have the freedom to use and develop their
own spoken and written languages and to preserve or reform their own
traditions and customs. 
The People’s Republic of China shall practice law-based governance
and build a socialist state under the rule of law.
The state shall safeguard the unity and sanctity of the socialist legal
system.
No law, administrative regulation or local regulation shall be in
conflict with the Constitution.
All state organs and armed forces, all political parties and social
organizations, and all enterprises and public institutions must abide by
the Constitution and the law. Accountability must be enforced for all acts
that violate the Constitution or laws. 
No organization or individual shall have any privilege beyond the
Constitution or the law. 